Brief notes on the paper: Patki, Neha, Roy Wedge, and Kalyan Veeramachaneni.
"The synthetic data vault." 2016 IEEE International Conference on Data Science
and Advanced Analytics (DSAA). IEEE, 2016.


The gist for a single table:

1. For each table, transform all variables into numeric, include extra
   variables indicating missing and information about categories.
2. Build a Gaussian copula covariance structure to model the table.
3. To generate a row, find the appropriate copula, apply its covariance
   matrix to a random vector and invert, then post-process into the
   correct types, missing, etc.

Relations between tables are handled as well.

It's a relatively simple and nice idea. Here are some issues that are
either problems or things I don't understand:


1. Statistical data model

Section IV.A states that all (numeric) data are modeled with either a uniform
distribution or a truncated Gaussian distribution.

This would seem to rule out multi-modal data? Generic data are probably
better described in this way with some kind of Gaussian mixture model.


2. Categorical data

Section IV.C.2 and Figure 6 briefly outlines a way to describe categorical data
as numeric values sampled from a mixture of truncated Gaussians all constrained
in the interval [0,1]. These converted numeric values are then, presumably,
into the copula model just like raw numeric data.

But, we just noted above that numeric data are modeled as a single cumulative
distribution function (CDF) that is either truncated Gaussian or uniform. Does
that mean that the mixture model used for categorical variables is subsequently
turned into a single Gaussian? It is at best, unclear.

Either a uniform or a single truncated Gaussian might be OK to use in practice.
But then why go to all the trouble of building a mixture model?


3. Dates

Dates are modeled as other numeric data, that is, drawn from a uniform or
Gaussian distribution conditioned on covariates. Maybe that's OK? Beware
however that ordinal relationships between covariates and dates may be lost
with this approach.

Consider for instance Salesforce data with two columns: date and sales stage.
Like: (January, First Contact), (March, Negotiation), (April, Sold).  But then
data like this: (January, Sold), (Februaray, First Contact) does not make
sense, but would seem to be admissible with the simple date sampling scheme
described in the paper.

Even simple single ordinal values don't seem to be supported. They are either
modeled as unbounded numeric values or un-ordered categorical ones.


4. Missing values

Section IV.C.1 has a good, but incomplete, discussion of missing values.
The system can model conditional likelihood of missing values given all
the covariates, but ignoring ordinal relationships as above. Sometimes
missing values are more likely to occur early in a process (for example).


Maybe the problems with ordinals could be helped by introducing, for each date
column, a new variable indicating time since first measured date for each set
of rows defined by the keys in that table?


5. Less simple data?

We typically encounter data with unstructured or semi-structured variables.
For example, call transcripts, images, etc. How could these variables be
handled by SDV?

Consider the call logs. We could encode that variable as many columns, each
representing a word or phrase, for instance. Then the SDV could model that and
in a post-processing step re-assemble synthetic call logs? It's not clear that
this will work very well though. Ditto for images or other complex data types.
